Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you, everyone. Again, I talk really about Dharma. Dharma,
according to my capabilities, and I share some about Dharma.
Dharma, and again, or to follow the Dharma, or listen to the Dharma, Dharma always in the teaching
mentioned, and as well as all the great monsters to correct the motivations.
So, this time, we are also going to activate our beautiful motivation of the Jhos and the Ven. Bhod
hi Jata and the Vedya teachings of the three Vedya states, all five perfection states.
Those certain motivations are always necessary, important, and foundation of the practices. And
with that beautiful motivation, now we follow again the teachings.
As we were talking about the life, as the great master, his only Dunyul Rumbuji, Ojyapya Dunyul R
umbuji, taught one of these teachings, heart and stockings, of only our teachings, in a very simple
way, direct way.
This is how we can put entirely teaching as simple practices, practices so that it can benefit
ourselves, and some really also benefit from other beings.
And so, in that teaching, as we were following and said, also we are trying to take the principle
goal, principle whole goal of the practice is to really make meaningful of our this very life that
we have this life.
This life is so precious, and therefore we have to really make this something meaningful.
And again, Buddha said, all the great master said, with many examples, how it is so important.
For example, the great master said what? Some individual has beautiful solid golden bow, but that
golden bow, that individual is using as like a garbage can.
I mean, if I use that word, garbage can, what people think that, most everyone think, oh how
foolish, it's not wise, not smart.
Why that individual uses such a beautiful golden bow, solid golden bow, for using as garbage can.
Or something can be like, kind of like unnecessary activities. People are going to say that, it's
not really kind of wise way to do.
But he said in the teaching, this is the more unwise, every spoil our own spiritual lives.
It's more precious than the golden bow, solid golden bow, everywhere is there, every this wise way.
So that means what we have to do, we have to line up to our inner good qualities.
All Buddha nature, something too good with kindness, compassion, love and wisdom combined together
some activities.
And when you start to do that, that is known as then practicing dharma.
That means practicing dharma is not something that we have to follow the regimen to kind of rules
and guidelines outside that we have to impose to our own self.
So, practice dharma is to apply, revere our goodness, our inherent richness or treasure that we
maybe can't ignore so many times, can't really look to that.
That which is revereling, we revere that beautiful qualities, we revere that beautiful qualities or
those beautiful qualities.
Then we're talking here, as Japatiya Dhunyanma said, we're taking the advantage of this beautiful,
reassuring importance.
And when we do that, what? It's going to benefit to our self, benefit to all the beings, directly,
indirectly.
And therefore, that's what we talk.
Although to do that, as simple manual or the guideline or the teachings taught, always reflecting
the poor thoughts or poor renunciation thoughts.
That I'm using different terminology, but you all know poor thoughts.
Breaks life, our breaks body, life is difficult to obtain, that reflect on that meaning, and then
impermanence, cause and effect are inevitable, and samsara has always challenges.
Those are the four points.
These four points are also simple, direct, natural, where things are.
It's not just Buddha said and then can we follow that, but this is the reality.
This is the fact. We are in that status.
Whether we believe or whether we don't believe or whether we pronounce that, whether we don't
pronounce, that doesn't change.
Nobody can say life is not gracious. Nobody can say it is not impermanent.
Nobody can say cause and effect are inevitable.
Nobody can say samsara has no difficulty.
That's it. That's the simple. That's the direct. That's it. So we reflect in the way things are
true, the exact as it is.
When we do that, what it does, I said so many times and you know, you know we heard from the
teachers and they read in the books.
It will make our heart more soft, more tender, more calm, more kind of cooperatives, more
respectful and appreciated to each others.
Really, it will make more gentle, more peaceful, more practical and more friendship.
We can see the value and importance of our friends, our family members.
Members, we kind of are not going to hanging solid in it, can't relate a self regiment attitude.
Those are all the soft in the Bible, reflecting the truth, the exact as it is true.
So therefore we're talking about now, among those four points, we're talking about this third one,
cause and effect are inevitable.
I mentioned again a few times and you all know. So now I'm not going to repeat too many of other
things.
But what is it? In the Buddha's teaching, there is what's called the virtues and guidelines that we
kind of against it or we break, then it becomes un-virtuous.
And those guidelines again, as I said the other day, nothing but to bring more hours and more calm,
peaceful, gentle, more simple, more cooperative, more respectful and appreciated to ourselves,
respect to the others or self respect, respect to the others.
That is really these old guidelines, simple, easy, it's something so nice, it's harmonized, it's
blended exactly with nature and it is how it should be, how it should be our life.
Our life should not be communicated according to the teaching. More simple, more calm, more
peaceful.
Because our life is more simple and calmer, calmer, what it brings is more peaceful, more calm,
more friendly.
Friendships, that old brain, our life has become more kind of a communication and not friendship
and we can't really challenge all the time, clashing all the time.
We even call it samsara fulfillment but it's practical. A cold Buddhism or dharma, it is. So
therefore it is.
These old guidelines are so good, it will benefit and help, support that situation, those things.
Now when I talk these things and what we are talking about, in Buddhism there is what is called
three vowels.
The patrimul chal, the vinaya vowels and bodhisattva vowels and vedayana vowels.
So among those three we went first two. Now I talk really again this last one.
Last one is vedayana vowels. Vedayana vowels has a number of vowels for the guidelines according to
different tantrums.
And what that means? Different tantrums mean there is at least six different tantrums.
Those are three outer tantrums and three inner tantrums.
And so each of those again has different guidelines. However to summarize that,
almost generally what was explained by the great masters and said five vowels of the five dhyana
buddhas
and fourteen dongtuls and eight big ones. And so I will talk really about these five vowels of the
five dhyana buddhas.
And among that first one is the tathagata, the vowels of the tathagatas.
All that I used in other words, the samayas of the tathagata buddhas.
And that samayas of the tathagata buddha is taking refuge, or vowels of the refuge, as well as
three moralities.
Three moralities vowels. And together with that bodhichata vowels, such as vowels of the vision bod
hichata and actualizing bodhichatas.
Those are the vowels of the tathagatas.
The second is vowels of the vedya, vedya payments.
Vedya family vowels of the samayas is, and the teaching says, always keep the bell and the golgi of
the vedya and bell.
All which is, of course, many of you know that. This is called dolgi in the vedya, and this is
known as turvo.
And so always in the teaching says, keep the vedya and the dolgi.
What actually that really means, dolgi representing of the skillful means, and the turbo or the
bell representing the wisdom.
So always keep the skillful means, wisdom, never separated.
Compassion, wisdom are combined. Skillful means, compassion. Compassion and wisdom unite together
all the time.
Every aspect of the vedya and the teaching, it surely really known as skillful means and vedya,
skillful means and the wisdom.
And then along with that, one who shows those, clearly of those, what is skillful means, what is
wisdom, that is the teacher.
So respect, listen, follow, following the qualified teachers' instructions.
One who tells clearly about skillful means and the wisdom. So that is principle vows of the Vedya
families.
The third one is vows of the Renna families. Renna family vows are, in the teaching says, always
give the poor generosity.
Always do the full kind of generosity practices or generositys. Sharing, sharing this, openly
sharing the core of your capabilities and readiness of others.
What are those three? First one is generous of the material, material generous practices as much as
you can.
Second is the generosity practices of the teachings of all the wisdoms, all those wisdoms and
teachings.
And third is the generosity of the protestions. Support, help, open the arms, open the heart.
Support, if you can, according to your capabilities and according to the need of others, always
make that open.
And then the poor generosity is the foundation, is the best of all the positive generositys, which
is always the great generosity of love, kindness.
When we do the generosity of the material or very easily with all the wisdom of the teachings or
protection of the support, always with love, always with kindness, compassion or lightness.
That is what is known as poor generousness. That is principle vows of the Renna families or Samayas
of the Renna families.
And the fourth one is vows of the Renna families. And the Renna family vows are in the teachings,
always keep the teaching as your heart, teaching as your heart.
What that means? What are the teachings? The teachings of the outer, inner and secret teachings.
All the teachings, such as the teachings of the Sharvaka Jana, Parthi Buddha Jana, and Bodhisattva
Jana.
Inner teachings are such as Kriya Jana teachings, Upa Yoga teachings, and Yoga Jana teachings,
those teachings.
And in secret level, teachings of the Mahayoga, teachings of the Anu-Yoga, and teachings of the Ati
-Yogas.
Keep the teachings as your heart, keep into the heart, keep as your light.
All right. And that is principle, kind of simple, principle vows of the Renna families.
The fifth one is vows of the, the vows of the old, the fifth vow is vows of the Karma families.
Karma is actually what means karma, action, activity, action. So keep all the vows of every Devotee
.
The Tatagata family, the Renna family, Renna family, Bema family, keep all and then the Karma
family vow, keep all those vows, all those.
With your activities of the body, activities of the speech, activities of the mind, keep those vows
.
Totally keep up all your commitment, what you committed, what you said I will do.
In front of the teacher or in front of the shrine or whatever your commitment, such as sessions,
morning sessions, afternoon sessions, evening sessions.
All such as Rachel's, Colma, Colma offerings, Yanya offerings, whatever you committed to keeping up
those, those are known as the vows of the Karma families.
So those are the five diem but the principle vows of the five diem. And then putting down poles and
add big ones.
And I'm not going to go all through those things. You can look those easily into different books. I
'm not going there.
But those are known as the vows or the samayas of the Vedayana teachings.
Vedayana teachings many times, people think all this Vedayana teachings is like there is nothing
much to do.
That is not really true. Vedayana teachings are more compact. Vedayana vows are more compact.
And Vedayana vows is more encompassing, not more, it encompasses entirely Buddha teachings, vows.
For example, in the morality what we are talking at the very beginning, three moralities, what we
said.
The vows of Dattagada family, Buddha family vows.
Morality, first we are talking about what in the teachings said. But what is vow that exists?
That avoiding all the negative vows of the, avoiding all the negative videos.
That summarizes entirely Vinaya vows. That summarizes.
And then the second one, that morality what it says to you. And perform your thought, perform all
the benefit activated for all the sentient beings.
That encompasses entirely bodhisattva, Mahayana bodhisattva vows, benefiting for all the sentient
beings by your comparison, your loving kindness.
And Vedayana teachings, it's really in compact, so, because many people think that all Vedayana
teachings are so easy.
There is nothing to do then, it can't be like casual, and just all that.
Those are said in the teachings. Who can do that? Those are high-carbability practices.
What is the teaching of all to use examples of the King Indira Buddhist? King Indira Buddhist.
He can do it. He and his, that, his high-carbability practices, he don't have to give up his, that
individualist those don't have to give anything, don't do anything, as it is.
Use that. But to do that, they have to have, have realization.
See, everything is displayed of the wisdom, primordial wisdom.
See, exactly three various states, as it is, not talking, not practicing, not presuming, not
intellectualizing.
Not just conceptualizing. Truly see, exactly as it is, as a guru-be-masana.
For example, those individuals, for example, so that the great yogi or great Mahasya, drinks all
the alcohols, consumes the alcohols.
But for them, alcohol is not alcohol as we prosecuted, lost the mind to us.
For them, it is a wisdom, eternal wisdom that does.
All playing the game with the wisdom goddess, mamakis, playing is completely different.
We sing different. Those great yogis, great girls who drunk so many gallons of the alcohol,
consumed all.
There is no history. They are drunk. They did messing up so many things.
All completely are thus intended as wisdom nectals, nourishing as quiet, extended, or a digger,
what's called, accelerated of their realization and understanding.
So that is really how it is.
So therefore, and for that reason, what we are always in the teaching state,
thinking, kind of thinking of the Vedayana and doing something like, kind of, everything is okay
then,
we kind of could really lose the ground.
We are going to lose. For that reason, only practitioners should not imitate the bodhisattva
activities.
Bodhisattvas, rugal bodhisattva should not imitate the Buddha activity, should not imitate.
Should stay where they are, read their capabilities, read their mind, read their, judge their
emotions,
judge their grasping and clingings.
And if they don't have grasping, they don't have emotions, they, we can do.
Otherwise, we should follow according to the upper cup of the lip. Otherwise, according to the
teaching, it will really create more handling and obstacles.
All that is known as breaking the samayas or losing the vowels, so forth, all those.
And then, number is negative, can't relate, can't develop, become then, become the obstacles.
And for those reasons, what is really known as always in the teaching state,
the drawers of the obstacles, or drawers of the negatives, or drawers of the breaking the vowels,
what are those?
There is four things, I just have listed that, and of course you will know that, you all know that.
And those four are, first is not recognizing, recognize, so that means, sorry, first is, maybe I
shouldn't say,
first is ignorance, first is ignorance, and second is disrespectful.
And third is carelessness, poor is too much emotions, those poor are the cause that we can do the
mistakes.
First is unknowing, or the ignorance I said, but unknowing, unknowing.
Of course, if we don't know what is guideline, what is not guideline, what is negative, what is not
negative,
if we don't know, then we can do things. That is the foundation there.
But once we know what is good, what is bad, what is good and what is bad, or what is positive, what
is negative,
then, if we did the negativities, what are those?
There could be disrespectful, or there could be careless, or there could be power of the emotions,
our emotions.
There could be, then it becomes distributed.
So, these vowels generally, how good are usually the names of those vowels, are as like, what is
called, block energy of the, what is called this name, living.
Name, or living, these vowels are the name of the living, block in the, floating, floating,
floating water is coming,
all the way, the sediment, so much water is coming to you, we are trying to block and put the walls
, walls.
These vowels are the walls to block the, the habitation is going to invade us.
These vowels are what these levities are.
These levities are actually, are mindfulness, alertness, coefficientness.
This is what these vowels are, or this levitt, or this block energy of the habitation, of the, the
real of the habitation, when it is invaded to our mind's streams,
or invaded to our, our body, our speech, and our mind.
So, what that levitt is, is the, as you say, is mindfulness, is alertness, it is consciousness,
consciousness.
So, therefore, this is so special.
So, this how we can spoil. How can spoil that even we know that we can spoil, then we did
disrespectfuls,
and that could be as like, kind of like, negative emotions, or whatever, or the stubbornness, or
air or guns,
and some relief, we cannot, or some relief, or that never mind attitude, and all that is deep, don
't, is disrespectful.
Not so keen on that.
And then second is, is the carelessness, or thought is carelessness.
And the fourth is too much power of the emotions, then it happens.
But once those happen, then what is good, then it becomes negative.
Once you see that happen, then it is always in the teaching state, we reify that.
Naked has no good qualities, but one of the best qualities is, if we really work for that, we can
purify that.
We can clean away that.
To purify, there is that many methods in throughout the Buddha teaching measures.
And, and such as in Vinaya teaching, also there is many, many, many purific methods.
Anyway, bodhisattva sutramayana, such as also doing the practices of the 35 Buddhas, all with both
sessions,
and kind of like, highlight of those in whatever negative happens, whatever you are in memory,
highlight those in mental state on the presence of the Buddhas and bodhisattvas, or 35 Buddhas,
joining those prayers, prayers, and dedicating that merit for the living beings.
Those are known as purification of the systems of the sutramayana.
Then our meditation, our meditation activity, all will purify, actually that.
Anyway, in the teaching, the most powerful one is, then such as to do various other practices.
We did that, we all received teachings and then struck them, so that, and that will clear away, it
will smooth and purify, and all that.
And there is nothing, no negative with it that cannot purify the power of the antidote or the power
of the meditation practices.
And that's always in the teaching, such as, for example, like Angulamala, who killed so many people
.
According to the teaching, today it killed 999, nine individuals, according to the instructions of
his negative teachings, that he did that.
But once he got understood, and once he met the Buddha, and he really understood that,
that have terrible things that he did through his power and courage and commitment, he purified all
that negativities, and he become ahadangut.
That's not that this negativity is purified in a kind of so many lifetimes. Within that single
lifetime, he purified according to it, he become ahadangut.
So this is the example. There are so many stories, stories that those negativities, many people
individually did,
but once they realized that, that really pushed them so strongly, pushed the board of the great
courage and commitment and confidence
and practicing dharma and purify, become great masters, great masters, really great, like
accomplished masters that happened.
So this is about how it is. Therefore, purifying negativities is so, so important.
And now, I'm going to summarize that. And now, all these negativities and positives is nothing but
a display of the mind.
These all come from mind. Positive mind develops positive, all the virtues are good things, and
negative mind develops all these negativities and unrighteous activities.
And therefore, always thoughtful our activities. More thoughtful, more careful with mindfulness,
alertness. Mindfulness, alertness and consciousness are thoughtful,
is really as the great masters, teacher standing right with you when you have that. It's always
supportive, always available, always with you.
Therefore, then, when we have the mindfulness, we are in a good state, we are in a good direction.
So that is really my choice aboard the cause and affectors are inevitable. Again, cause and affect
ors are inevitable.
That we all, they are not really going to change. The cause, cause, the good cause cannot bring the
bad result. Bad cause cannot bring good result.
That's it. They are not going to mix. And that is the same thing as externally, when we look to the
seed.
Seed and all these things. All things in the world, what things come. Always follow that.
So that is my bridge of the among the poor, renowned sessions, and this, the third one. Cause and
affectors are inevitable.
Okay? I'm going to start with you. Thank you, thank you very much, everyone, and for coming and
participating.
- Thank you.